So we got our first webpack built, we get the optimized code here and we see why that's happening in
our warning down there,
the mode option has not been set and therefore webpack will use production as a default mode. So you can
tell webpack for which environment you're building
and by default it assumes that this is production
and if it is production, webpack will automatically apply a couple of optimizations for you, which of
course is really convenient. Here
however I want to start with a development build which does not do all these optimizations and to tell
webpack that this is my goal,
I just have to go to the webpack.config.js file and in there, add a mode key and set
this to development like this. If you do that and you repeat this build command, npm run build, you see
it again builds,
now we get this output here and now you see here, I got these files which are now not optimized anymore,
the 1.app.js file is, 0.app.js was produced and this is not optimized.
Now what you also see is that of course there is a lot of extra code which we didn't write and that's
all webpack's work which in the end is the code that ensures that everything works, everything is loaded
at runtime and so on.
Now does that code work?
Well to find out, all we got to do is spin up our development server again which for now is still is
served by running serve, that gives us our web server at localhost:5000 by default and
visit this page and see what we got there
and if I reload, indeed that looks good,
got no errors here,
got my working application where I can drag and drop stuff and we're using app.js
So if I reload, you see we're only making one HttpRequest here instead of dozens of HttpRequests, this
one file is a bit bigger than all the single individual files but that of course makes sense because
it has merged all these individual files.
If I click on the tooltip however, this does not work, you see loading 0.app.js somehow fails,
it does not find that because it's also looking in the wrong path here, it's looking directly in the
root folder for this file and that doesn't work because we know actually that would be found in
assets/scripts/0.app.js,
so this is something we'll have to fix. To work around this issue where we can't find this extra bundle,
this extra script file which holds our tooltip code, we need to go back to our webpack.config
file and there in output, we need to add one other key and that's the public path.
Now the thing is webpack is taking all our input, bundling it up and then moving it into these assets
scripts folder. Our web server then imports app.js from the assets scripts folder,
the problem just is that webpack writes our app.js file such that it looks for this 0.app.js
file, in the end not in the same folder as the app.js file is,
so not in the scripts folder but on the root level of our server and that's what we can change
with public path, we in the end can tell webpack here that our files are stored in a different path. For
that we can set the public path here to assets/scripts/, in my example here, and then quit
the development server here with control c, rerun npm run build and then rerun serve to bring up that
development server again. If we now go back and we reload here, if I click on more info, this now works and
loads this file correctly.
So now this is working and we're able to get our tooltip to show up and we got our bundled output which
still supports this capability of loading some code on-demand.